# smart-irrigation

## Installation

### Raspbian

See [here](https://www.raspberrypi.org/help/noobs-setup/) for information on installing Raspbian on a Raspberry Pi.

### Python

Python 2.7 or higher is required. For a Raspberry Pi running Raspbian, this should be installed by default. If it is not, follow the instructions for installation on Debian found [here](https://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide/Download).

### Python MySQL Connector

See [here](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-python/en/connector-python-installation.html) for information on installing the mysql.connector library in Python.

### MySQL

The project requires a MySQL database to function. Instructions for installing MySQL on a server can be found [here](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/installing.html). Instructions for setting up MySQL with Amazon Web Services can be found [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/CHAP_SettingUp.html).

## Running

### Creating a config file

The different components of this project rely on a config file which contains information on the location and login credentials of a MySQL server, the various fields to be read in from the hardware sensors, and a key for access to an external weather API.

To generate a template for this file, run ConfigGen.py.

Fill in the template with values specific to your implementation. An example config file is shown below.

    [MySQL]
    user = user_name
    password = password
    host = address_of_server.com
    database = database_name
    table = table_name

    [fields]
    time = TIMESTAMP
    s1 = INT
    s2 = INT
    s3 = INT
    temp = INT

    [weather]
    key = 165e1360651cd2e1

Each pair in the fields section corresponds to a column in the MySQL table. The name represents the name of the column and the value represents the datatype of the column.

### Generating test data

To generate test data, first create the file RandCSV.cfg and fill it with values specific to your project. An example is shown below.

    [Dates]
    time = '%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S'
    [Integers]
    s1 = 0,100
    s2 = 0,100
    s3 = 0,100
    temp = 20,120

This cfg file uses the same fields specified in the fields section of the config file. For date values, specify the format the date should be printed in. For integer values (such as most sensor readings) specify the range of values the sensors should return.

Once this file is created and filled with appropriate values, run RandCSV.py. It takes two arguments, the name of the output file and the number of entries to generate. For example, to create a csv file named test_input with 200 entries you would run the following command.

    python RandCSV.py test_input 200

### Pushing data to MySQL server

TODO: Edit this section once we have finalized scripts for pushing data

To test pushing data to a MySQL server, first make sure that your config file contains appropriate values for your implementation. Then make sure there is a file named test_input that was generated by RandCSV.py. Then run SqlConnect.py.

Note: SqlConnect.py is a quick and dirty test script and will be replaced (along with this section) in future iterations.

To confirm that SqlConnect.py was successful, run SqlPull.py and make sure the results allign with the test data in test_input.

## Using the API

### get_field_between_time

Returns the entries for the specified field(s) and time from the given table between the given dates.

Arguments
* field: The name of the field to pull. Including this option multiple times allows you to pull multiple fields at once.
* start: The start time. The query will include all entries between the start time and the end time. Format: `\"%Y-%m-%d_%H:%M:%S\"`
* end  : The end time. The query will include all entries between the start time and the end time. Format: `\"%Y-%m-%d_%H:%M:%S\"`
* table: The table to pull from.

Example call:

    /get_field_between_time?field=s1&field=s2&start=%222014-10-06_06:27:29%22&end=%222015-12-22_14:04:29%22&table=entry

This will pull the s1, s2 and time fields from the table entry. The start date is 2014-10-06_06:27:29 and the end date is 2015-12-22_14:04:29. The %22 is URL encoding for quote marks. The result is a JSON encoded list of dictionaries.

Example result:

    [
        {
            "s1": 16, 
            "s2": 33, 
            "time": "2014-10-06 06:27:29"
        }, 
        {
            "s1": 16, 
            "s2": 33, 
            "time": "2015-10-06 06:27:29"
        }, 
        {
            "s1": 63, 
            "s2": 57, 
            "time": "2015-11-02 09:21:05"
        }, 
        {
            "s1": 21, 
            "s2": 56, 
            "time": "2015-11-12 12:09:42"
        }, 
        {
            "s1": 99, 
            "s2": 21, 
            "time": "2015-12-21 07:13:15"
        }
    ]

### get_average

Returns the averages for the specified field(s) from the given table between the given dates.

Arguments
* field: The name of the field to pull. Including this option multiple times allows you to pull multiple fields at once.
* start: The start time. The query will include all entries between the start time and the end time. Format: `\"%Y-%m-%d_%H:%M:%S\"`
* end  : The end time. The query will include all entries between the start time and the end time. Format: `\"%Y-%m-%d_%H:%M:%S\"`
* table: The table to pull from.

Example call:

    /get_average?field=s1&field=s2&start=%222014-10-06_06:27:29%22&end=%222015-12-22_14:04:29%22&table=entry

This will pull the averages of s1 and s2 from the table entry. The start date is 2014-10-06_06:27:29 and the end date is 2015-12-22_14:04:29. The %22 is URL encoding for quote marks.

Example result:

    [
        {
            "s1": 47.3, 
            "s2": 43.0
        }
    ]

### get_field_between_key

Returns the specified fields (including the key field) that fall in between the start and end condition of the key field.

Arguments
* field: The name of the field to pull. Including this option multiple times allows you to pull multiple fields at once.
* start: The start value. The query will include all entries with key between the start and end values.
* end  : The end value. The query will include all entries with key the start and end values.
* table: The table to pull from.
* key  : The field to compare to the start and end values.

Example call:

    /get_field_between_key?field=s1&field=s2&start=80&end=120&table=entry&key=temp

This will pull the values of s1, s2, and temp from the entry table from all entries where temperature is between 80 and 120.

Example result:

    [
        {
            "s1": 16, 
            "s2": 33, 
            "temp": 83
        }, 
        {
            "s1": 16, 
            "s2": 33, 
            "temp": 100
        }, 
        {
            "s1": 63, 
            "s2": 57, 
            "temp": 81
        }, 
        {
            "s1": 21, 
            "s2": 56, 
            "temp": 97
        }, 
        {
            "s1": 99, 
            "s2": 21, 
            "temp": 83
        }
    ]
